#diamond-throne #log #arcana-unearthed

Founded almost 1,800 years ago in ancient Sennes (see [The Rise Of Human Kingdoms](The%20Rise%20Of%20Human%20Kingdoms.md)), this cult reveres the [[runechildren]] — or, more specifically, the somewhat mysterious power inherent in the land that grants them their runes and power. The religion can claim only a handful of worshippers today, but ruined temples of the cult remain in isolated areas. They are marked by walls covered in relief sculpture of life-sized people showing their runechild runes.
Some cultists also revere the historical figure known as the [[The Rise of Human Kingdoms#Rune Messiah|Rune Messiah]]. They saw this female litorian as a savior who would bring peace and order to the world, and they believe that she will return, albeit perhaps in a different form. 
Throughout the cult’s history, [[humans]] comprised the majority of its membership. In fact, some small sects have denied that nonhumans can become runechildren at all. They claim that nonhumans sometimes use other (often suggestively sinister) types of magic to allow them to masquerade as runechildren. These racially prejudiced humans understandably draw a lot of venom from nonhuman races, because they use their religion as a way to channel their bigotry. Not surprisingly, these sects of the religion do not believe in the Rune Messiah, since she was not
human.
There is, however, a growing resurgence of the cult, but not among humans — among the [[mojh]]. They see the power of the runes as somehow related to the inherent power of dragonkind and thus think of it as “dragon divinity.”
