#diamond-throne #log #galderidderne

Gahanis is a human name, which in older times meant “shelter.” During the [[dramojh]] rule, it served as a refuge for escaped slaves and rebels. When the giants came, Kether — the leader of Gahanis — attempted to aid them against the dramojh. The giants at the time nicknamed the city Battlehome, for they used it as a base of operations and supply for many years.
Today Gahanis exists as a trade center. The mines of the Derenblack Hills to the south, operated largely by sibeccai, produce vast amounts of iron and other metals. Although Gahanis has its own bale furnace and foundry, most of the ore ships out in caravans either northward or toward the coastal cities.
The steward of Gahanis is [[Ne-Chardath]]. He works closely with a human speaker, [[Neril Sann]]. The town boasts a population of about 3,500, with half of those being human, a quarter sibeccai and faen, and the last quarter made up of giants, verrik, litorians, and mojh, in that order. Not far into the hills dwell two tribes of litorians that keep in fairly close contact with Gahanis. They have only a passing interest in the ores that move through the town, but they trade for other supplies. And of course the plains to the north teem with litorians as well.
The fortress of Gahanis still stands, mostly vacant, only occasionally used as a storehouse. The fortress connects to the vast natural cave system used by escaped slaves to hide from the dramojh. Common wisdom claims that some of the bandits who raid caravans leaving Gahanis have spies hiding in the caves to monitor who comes and goes from the town. 
 The bandits and their spies were caught in the very first adventure of the newly gathered 
, "A Plague of Dreams".
