#diamond-throne #log #arcana-unearthed

The Hanavere Trinity were three beings of awesome power. In the eyes of most, they were gods. The three of them, Nalos, Tayana, and Seron, lived in a fantastically huge citadel in the
[Elder Mountains](Elder%20Mountains.md), on the edge of the [Southern Wastes](Southern%20Wastes.md). Once, near the beginning of time, they were three mortal humans who discovered a major [[Power Cysts|power cyst]] so potent that they used its mystic energies to ascend to godhood — or virtually so. The story goes that they then traveled the various planes of the multiverse, exploring and learning even more about the truth of reality. Eventually, the trinity returned to the world of Serran, built their citadel, and shut themselves within it, only occasionally offering audience to outsiders.
When the [[dramojh]] began their invasion of the east in Common Year 180, the Hanavere Trinity were alarmed. They took their time, however, marshaled their forces (they had an army of human followers as well as [[lammasu]], [[centaurs]], and [[giant eagles]]), and made careful plans. In Common Year 182 they met the advancing dramojh army in the [[Fields of Yallatonan]]. Although the trinity inflicted terrible losses upon the dramojh — more than anyone other than the giants, who would come a thousand years later — the malevolent conquerors used powerful artifacts found in their interplanar raids to bind and slay the godlings.
Now known as ''the Dead Gods'', the Hanavere Trinity lost most of their faithful servants and worshippers that day as well. Most people have forgotten them, other than the occasional attempt to use them as vague examples that “the gods are dead,” when bitterly rejecting religion.
There are still those who worship the Dead Gods, however. The faithful travel hundreds of miles to risk the perils of entering [[The Citadel of The Dead Gods]] (as their fortress is now called) because they believe that, once in its highest tower, in the innermost sanctum, one can still commune with them and learn some of the secrets of the universe.
