#diamond-throne #log #arcana-unearthed

To the northeast, a barrier almost as impenetrable as a sea exists in the form of the Harrowdeep. This forest is deep and dark, and it gets deeper and darker as one heads north. Even the faen who call the place home do not know the forest’s northern limits. Presumably, it eventually is consumed in the ice of the eternal winterlands said to await travelers at the “top of the world,” but no one knows for a fact.
This forest exemplifies the ideal of a thick, impenetrable woods. Take even a few steps into the woods and suddenly the sun’s light dims, as it is filtered through a thick canopy of leaves.
A traveler can see only a dozen or so yards ahead due to the thick growth. And it only gets denser as one goes deeper. 
The Harrowdeep can be an extremely dangerous place for the unwary or the unprepared. Monstrous plants such as archer bushes, carnivorous trees, hangman trees, strangleweeds, and tendriculos live in these woods in large numbers. Further, cockatrices, dire animals, giant vermin, goblins, goblin bears, griffons, satyrs, trolls, volts, and more populate the Harrowdeep. The
trees themselves can move, at least a little bit, once a traveler gets a few miles from the edge of the forest. While no one ever sees them move, the paths through the woods change from day to day and sometimes even disappear altogether.
## The Harrowdeep Kingdom  
To the north of the Diamond Throne lies the Harrowdeep, both a geographical feature as well as the forested homeland of the faen. The faen, as a race, are ruled by twin siblings — always.
When a pair of siblings (or even just one of the pair) abdicates or dies, another pair is “chosen by divine will.” Their rulers measure alternating cycles of time that faen refer to as “loresong cycles” or “quickling cycles.” Based on the current cycle, they associate different meanings and portents to faen fates and fortunes. Since the length of a cycle is never the same, the faen system of measuring time (“that was three cycles ago”) is something only they really understand.
Faen usually reside in small villages and thorps in isolated vales and glens within the forest. These communities always attract a mixture of all types of faen — there are no purely quickling villages or loresong towns. Most of these settlements are well hidden and defensible, due to the faen’s need for security. In the far north of the Harrowdeep — even farther than most
faen dare to venture — lives a small group of greenbonds of various races called the ''Deepharrowers''. These people, having rejected all semblance of normal society, watch over the forest from within the trees themselves. These individuals show no mercy to anyone they see as an intruder. Ruthless and compassionless, they are feared by all.
All, that is, except perhaps the [[darklings]].
