#diamond-throne #log

Sixteen hundred years ago, the terrible creatures called the dramojh returned in force. Most believe that for the previous few hundred years, they had hidden in another dimension, preparing
for their invasion. They swarmed out of the [Bitter Peaks](Bitter%20Peaks.md) region, where they made their initial beachhead. These ancient, winged quadrupeds, whom some say were as much demon as dragon,
fielded vast armies of powerful spellcasting warriors.
First to fall were the already war-weary Verdune and Thartholan. The invasion came too quickly for them to end their own disputes, and the dramojh were ruthless. They decimated these kingdoms, using the inhabitants in hideous magical experiments and breeding procedures, the results of which inhabit the world today as [[lamia]]s, [[Harpy|harpies]], [[medusa]]s, [[manticore]]s, [[slassan]]s, and other hybrid monstrosities. When they were finished with these lands, they loosed necromantic energies into Verdune. This evil magic animated many of the dead there into marauding undead who wandered the ruined cities and towns. The dramojh set up a powerful artifact called the phase heart in the scattered ruins of Thartholan’s crashed palace-city, which once floated in the sky as sure as the clouds. The phase heart opened portals to other planes in a controlled sequence throughout the kingdom, allowing the dramojh to steal objects, creatures, and sometimes whole cities from other worlds. They hoped in this way to find even better weapons and more potent magic.
Eventually, the monsters moved east over the mountains and into the Central Plains and the Harrowdeep. Their terrible armies swelled with ranks of the creatures they had created, as well as those who decided to serve rather than die — [[troll]]s, [[rhodin]], [[goblin]]s, and worse. They also marshalled rank upon rank of undead creatures and even magical war machines. These dread armies brought disease, fire, and darkness with them. Wherever they went, they enslaved humanity and the faen, conquering them with magical might and brute force. Powerful beings known as the [Hanavere Trinity](Hanavere%20Trinity.md) made the greatest attempt to stop the push of the dramojh
eastward, at the Fields of Yallatonan, but ultimately failed. This was seen as the beginning of the end—if even these godlike beings could not stop the dramojh, people thought, nothing could.
Ultimately, the dramojh made it to the sea, having defeated armies of humans, faen, litorians, and even verrik to do so. The [[litorians]] that survived the invasion fled to the South rather than be enslaved, although a few remained in the Central Plains, staging a resistance against the invaders with hit-and-run tactics. The free [[faen]] fled as far as they dared into the [Harrowdeep](Harrowdeep.md). But the humans could not escape. Thus, they became the primary
slave race of the dramojh.
This was a bitter time, full of death, tragedy, and horrid travesties against living beings. Whole generations of humans were born and lived their short lives under the iron rule of the dramojh, working to build temples and citadels for them. While most dramojh strongholds were located in the northern part of the Bitter Peaks, others were scattered throughout the lands, some as far south as the edge of the [Southern Wastes](Southern%20Wastes.md).
The [Verrik](Verrik%20History.md) lost thousands to the encroaching dramojh forces, but their monarch, Ixchnal, decreed that his people would fall back all the way to the capital of Yrterot, to prepare their defenses. However, the dramojh — perhaps finally fearing overextending themselves, or perhaps more hurt in the Battle of the Fields of Yallatonan than anyone knew — halted their advance. Like a noose around the neck of the continent, the lands under their control stretched from the Sea of Dreams to the Great Eastern Sea. They spread as far north as the southern third of the Harrowdeep and as far south as the middle of the Southern Wastes.
Meanwhile, the enslaved humans called out to their gods — those not already slain before thousands of witnesses on the Fields of Yallatonan. But the gods were silent. Even they, it
seemed, feared the power of the dramojh.
The people gave up all hope.
{| align="center" 
| <<< [The Rise Of Human Kingdoms](The%20Rise%20Of%20Human%20Kingdoms.md) , [The Coming Of The Giants](The%20Coming%20Of%20The%20Giants.md) >>>
|}
