#diamond-throne #log #arcana-unearthed

Not a part of the [[Gods of the Denotholan|Denotholan pantheon]], Rallonoch is looked upon as a savior deity by his followers. Through Rallonoch’s blessings and teachings, a mortal can earn her way into the heavenly realms, rather than going to a hellish eternity. Rallonoch is known for his compassion and his desire to save all mortals. He is depicted as a stout, bearded man with a jovial smile and welcoming hands outstretched.
The most important sacrament of Rallonoch’s religion is his holy oil. This blessed elixir, with its merest touch, ensures mortals’ passage into a heavenly reward, unless they sin after receiving it. (Thus, priests usually administer it to the dying.) Anointing the faithful with this oil is the central point of all Rallonoch’s ceremonies and services.
Typically, adherents of this religion are monotheists and do not believe any of the other gods worshipped in the Lands of the Diamond Throne are real (or, at best, they think they are conniving demons seeking to turn people from the truth of Rallonoch). Most of the god’s followers are fervent in their beliefs and solid in their faith. So convinced are they in Rallonoch’s blessings, and so willing are they to carry on their deity’s compassionate ways,
that when they go into battle, they carry Rallonoch’s oil with them to anoint their fallen enemies and send them to heaven.
Rallonoch’s temples are usually long stone structures, not particularly ornate. They contain ample supplies of holy oil and bear passages from Rallonoch’s scriptures engraved on the walls. The religion has no fewer than 88 holy books (eight being a sacred number for Rallonoch).
