#diamond-throne #log

Ravadan was once a holy city dedicated to the god [[Idonis]]. Adherents of that religion claim that it still is. It is said that within the walls of the ancient city, Idonis dwelt in physical form for many years. Religious pilgrims form a substantive amount of the traffic into the city, either by sea from the eastern coast or through the mountains from [Xavel](Xavel.md) and points north. A huge statue of the god stands in the harbor, holding a flame in its hand that serves as a beacon at night (the statue itself, almost three-quarters of a mile off-shore, is in fact a hollow temple). Even today, people in Ravadan — especially pilgrims — claim to have visions and dreams sent by the god or to see omens in the way animals act, signs in the architecture, or even portents in the way the dust blows about the street.
Beautiful marble buildings, many looking like temples (a lot of them were temples once), fill Ravadan. The Temple Guard, an independent law-enforcement organization, keeps the peace in Ravadan, ensuring that it does not become as wild a port as [Khorl](Khorl.md). The Temple Guard also makes sure that no one mistreats or takes advantage of the pilgrims, either inside the walled city or in the immediate region. Once a wholly human organization, many of the Temple Guard today are sibeccai.
Ravadan is a city of 9,000, most of them [[human]] but with a strong [Verrik](Verrik%20History.md) and [[sibeccai]] population as well.
The steward of Ravadan, ''Ea-Nuverun'', is said to hate the place. Unhappy with her station and farther from the Diamond Throne than any other steward, she seeks a new position.
