#diamond-throne #log

Both Thayn and [Navael](Navael.md), cities heavily populated by [[faen]], hold a reputation for producing of fine craftwork, particularly in wood and precious stones. Thayn is also known as a port city, but a port of a different kind — it produces floating sky ships carried aloft by rigid, gas-filled bags and propelled by magical motors. It is generally impractical to transport large numbers of people or shipments of goods in these craft, but they serve as
rapid transport for wealthy or important individuals. They also prove useful for scouting and information gathering. It’s interesting to note that the giants will have nothing to do with these sky craft.
Thayn also boasts the second-largest magic academy in the realm: [Brightborn School](Brightborn%20School.md), founded by the [Council Of Magisters](Council%20Of%20Magisters.md) in Common Year 1570. The steward, ''Ei-Kestrin'', is herself a magister of great power. This is the current home of other powerful mages, such as the faen ''Faevor Greyportal'', who is currently attempting to reform the Council of Magisters. The academy is said to lie on the site of a battle between a famous mage and a powerful dragon, and mages there can still harness the battle’s residual magic. 
With about 10,000 people, Thayn is slightly larger than Navael. Almost half of the population is [[faen]], but the city also has a large number of [[Giants|giant]] and [[human]] residents, along with a fair number of [[sibeccai]].
Around the city, mostly to the west, farmers till wheat and barley. To the east, in the mountains, a number of silver and copper mines produce valuable commodities that ship through the city.
