#diamond-throne #log

As time passed, the humans built towns and eventually great cities, while most [[litorians]] rejected such a life and kept to the wilderness. The human settlements grew, but remained divided into rival tribal territories. Along the coast of the Great Eastern Sea, however, two mighty human kingdoms flourished: Devania and Sennes (pronounced Sen-NAY). Devania occupied the area around modern-day [Ao-Manasa](Ao-Manasa.md) and northward, while Sennes stretched from just south of there, around modern [Ka-Rone](Ka-Rone.md) to south of [Khorl](Khorl.md). The [Elder Mountains](Elder%20Mountains.md) sheltered both of these lands from the tribes of humans and litorians to the west, except for the Valley Johar, through which the [Ghostwash](Ghostwash%20River.md) now flows (then it was called the Grand River).
While the Devanians were content to focus on craftsmanship and developing knowledge of magic and science, the people of Sennes wanted more. Eventually, through both warfare and politics,
they united most of Terrakal under the banner of Sennes and its queen, Adrilashe. In particular, Sennes built an impressive navy and used it to control the coast and settle the island of [Noll](Noll.md). Their capital, Reveran, at the mouth of the Grand River, was easily the largest and most elegant city of its day. A massive castle rose in the center of the city, known as the Palace of a Thousand Banners. From here, Queen Adrilashe could enjoy her kingdom’s growing wealth and prosperity. 
While Devania remained an unsubjugated ally, all the tribes of the land paid fealty to Sennes. Inland, various small baronies and duchies divided the land of Terrakal, with most centered along the shores of the Grand River. Farther west, beyond the [Bitter Peaks](Bitter%20Peaks.md), twin sisters ''Verdan'' and ''Tharthol'' (both runechildren) gathered followers and founded their own territory, free from Sennes’ rule. The sisters soon quarreled and split, each taking a portion of their new community with them. Their respective groups settled apart and eventually became known as the kingdoms of Verdune and Thartholan.
The time of Sennes’ domination did not last long. The kingdom quickly crumbled from within. Corruption tore the queen’s court apart, and after she died, her young son ruled for only a few years before his assassination. Yet even as Sennes fell apart, the culture of the Kingdom of Devania spread throughout Terrakal. Where Sennes conquered with swords and spears, Devania conquered with knowledge, art, and commerce. Thus the human language, now simply called the Common tongue, arose from Devanian, not from the far more complex and difficult tongue of Sennes.
## Thartholan and Verdune  
Meanwhile, to the west, the kingdoms of Thartholan and Verdune began a series of wars that would last for nearly a hundred years. Fought with spell as well as sword, these wars honed
Verdune into a land of stalwart warriors. Thartholan, on the other hand, relied more and more on its ranks of [[magister]]s, [[runethane]]s, and [[Mage Blade|mage blades]]. Toward the end of this turbulent period, around Common Year 100, King Vord II declared spellcasting illegal in Erdina, the capital of Verdune. His magehunter assassins scoured the land for spellcasters. At the same time, Queen Navasha of Thartholan used magic to build a floating palace - city in the sky near the former capital of Balatosh. 
Back in the East, the now independent baronies and duchies were forced to rule themselves. The [Central Plains](Central%20Plains.md) were divided into no less than two dozen different lands, most of which were
hostile toward at least one, if not more, of their neighbors. Bandit kings and land-grabbing monarchs came out of nowhere, menacing all. Devania managed to maintain order along most of
the coast for a time, but when Sennes fell apart, the nobles who once served Adrilashe’s court fomented strife as they struggled for power. This strife came to an end as a magister named Teliar cast [[Invoked Apocalypse]], destroying not only Reveran but all that remained of the Sennes fleet, which anchored in the harbor. Assassins soon killed Teliar in revenge. After this, it was all Devania could do to keep its own borders safe.
## The Rune Messiah  
In Common Year 42, in the city of Jerad, a litorian named ''Sarel'' made herself known by single-handedly banishing a plague known as Blackheat. She quickly achieved cult status, with
rumors of her powers spreading quickly. Although the term was never used then, Sarel is known today as the Rune Messiah. A [[Runechildren|runechild]], Sarel wielded powers far beyond those of any other runechild ever known. She could cure any disease, control the minds of dozens of people at once, change the course of rivers, and direct the weather.
Some began worshipping Sarel as a savior, semi-divine, or at least divinely favored. They believed she would bring order out of the political chaos of the time and create a realm of everlasting peace. (It may be important to note that Sarel herself never made such claims.)
Sarel disappeared mysteriously. A few accounts spoke of creatures both spidery and reptilian attacking and slaying her in a narrow plaza in Jerad. The descriptions fit that of [[slassan]]s perfectly, but many sages doubt these claims because slassans, creations of the dramojh, did not
appear in the realm until more than 100 years later. To believe that Sarel’s slayers were slassans would be to suggest that the dramojh were aware of, and involved in, events long before common lore places them on the scene. It also suggests that they had some particular fear of Sarel — so great a fear that they were willing to risk exposing themselves and their magically crafted servants far earlier than they had wanted.
{| align="center" 
| <<< [Prehistory/Ancient History](Prehistory/Ancient%20History.md) , [Invasion Of The Dramojh](Invasion%20Of%20The%20Dramojh.md) >>>
|}
