#diamond-throne #log

More than 500 years ago, tales say, a dying giant — [[The Giant Prince|a prince]] — crawled into a fabulous city in a land far across the eastern sea. Only one word passed his lips before he expired: “West.” No one knew what killed him or what he meant for sure, but the only thing that lay west was the boundless sea. Following this omen, however, thousands of giants and their sibeccai servants climbed aboard ships of great size and sailed across the sea to discover the land of the humans — and the dramojh that had enslaved them. As is the nature of giants, the discovery of a new land invoked in them a powerful sense of responsibility. These giants, in the mindset of what they called [[Chi-Julud]], arrived ready to fight. 
A thousand years had passed since the dramojh subjugated the realm. In this time, they had grown complacent, just as their slaves had grown docile. Their only concerns were the [Verrik](Verrik%20History.md), who had holed themselves up in the southern half of their land, and the humans who had escaped into the southern land known as [Fallanor](Fallanor.md). Neither presented a serious threat. Although real information about the period is sketchy, akashics now believe the dramojh had divided into rival factions, contesting one another through proxy — forcing their slaves and servants to engage in bloody struggles on their behalf. For all their magical might, it
seems that they did not foresee the coming of the giants.
The giantish fleet landed at [Khorl](Khorl.md) in Common Year 1228. This city, which the dramojh all but ignored, was easily taken by the giants. They quickly built the fortress of Du-Nor and shored up their position, before sailing the fleet north along the coast. They conquered every coastal village and town they encountered, and then stopped at the mouth of what would one day be called the [Ghostwash](Ghostwash%20River.md). With surprising speed and skill, they began to build [Ka-Rone](Ka-Rone.md).
## The Runechild Spark Rekindled  
When the giants began to conquer the shores of the [[Great Eastern Sea]], the human and faen slaves fought them halfheartedly, as directed by their masters. Once the dramojh lay dead and defeated, however, the slaves looked upon the giants as liberators. They suddenly experienced something that neither they, nor their parents, or their parents before them, had ever known: freedom.
Of course, the war-minded Chi-Julud giants were not, at the time, interested in caring for those they had liberated from the dramojh. And the first encounters between humans and sibeccai
were less than friendly.
Within a year after the giants’ arrival, a small number of the former slaves began to experience another phenomenon: the reemergence of [[runechildren]]. A few select individuals found themselves graced with a rune on their flesh and a surge of magical power that allowed them to accomplish feats others could not. What’s more, the giants and the sibeccai, in very small numbers, also began to find themselves granted such power. This was a first for members of either race.
Meanwhile, the giants secured the entirety of the coast, founding another fortress at [Ao-Manasa](Ao-Manasa.md). Freed human and faen slaves began forming themselves into small military units. At
first, the giants condescendingly ignored these allies, but eventually they realized that the growing number of humans and faen who wanted to lash out against their former masters could provide valuable support.
By Common Year 1230, a combined army of giants, sibeccai, humans, and faen crossed the Elder Mountains into the [Central Plains](Central%20Plains.md), there to meet the first real resistance of the campaign.
The dramojh consolidated many of their resources and prepared defenses in the Rosewood Hills. The coalition army was repelled. But they did not give up. The giants in their Chi-Julud state would not be denied. Eventually, they broke through, aided by litorian tribes that had remained free throughout the reign of the dramojh. The fighting went on for decades, but as the dramojh pulled back to their nexus of power in the Bitter Peaks—a place called “the Serpent’s Heart” in the Common tongue — it became clear that the giants would not be stopped. Eventually, the Central Plains stood free of the taint of the dragon-scions. The giants paused to build such mighty fortress cities as [Mi-Theron](Mi-Theron.md) and [De-Shamod](De-Shamod.md) to safeguard against a dramojh counterattack.
## Battle of the Serpent’s Heart  
Thus it was almost 200 years since the giants’ landing in the realm before they gathered for their assault upon the Serpent’s Heart. They were not willing to suffer one dramojh to live, so convinced were they of their enemy’s utter malevolence. Thousands of giants, then, some already the grown children of those who had sailed across the Great Eastern Sea, as well as thousands of sibeccai (all of whom were at least second, if not third generation), humans, faen, litorians, and even some verrik gathered south of the Crystal Fields, where the mountain demesne known as the Serpent’s Heart stood. This evil place was clawed out of the mountains
themselves by the hands of human and faen slave labor. 
The dramojh unleashed horror upon horror to stop their foes’ advance. The skies turned black and the sun shone red due to the discharge of dark sorceries loosed into the world. It did not
save them. The giants used their canny knowledge of stone to tear down the Serpent’s Heart, collapsing it upon the defending dramojh and their monstrous creations. But they did not stop
there. They sifted through the ruins and found underground passages and hidden caverns filled with dire laboratories and foul breeding pits — and they killed every dramojh they found.
Soon it became a hunt across the realm for dramojh survivors. Magisters crafted special magical items that could detect the dramojh, and well-armed and skilled parties of hunters scoured
all the lands looking for any remnants of their hated enemy. 
By Common Year 1410, the giantish warmain ''Ro-Heras'' declared the world free of the dramojh taint forever. (And, to this day, almost 350 years later, there is no reason to believe him wrong.) Even before that point, however, the giants, as a race, began to shift from Chi-Julud to Si-Karan, from conquerors to caretakers. This is the nature of giants: They conquer a land so they might oversee and protect it. The giants hunted the despicable dramojh to extinction to ensure the realm’s safety henceforth.
Suddenly, the humans, faen, verrik, and litorians found themselves among a seemingly new race. Where the giants had been battle hungry, now they were eager to build cities, bridges, and
schools. They focused on planting crops and creating roads. They sought cures for disease and means to end hunger. The wondrous cities of the giants grew quickly. The greatest of these was De-Shamod, where they placed the Diamond Throne. From there they would rule over and care for this land they had conquered. They named the land Dor-Erthenos, but most simply called it the
Lands of the Diamond Throne. Some of the liberated peoples grew to love the giants and the boons that they brought the otherwise dangerous and unruly realm. But some did not.
{| align="center" 
| <<< [Invasion Of The Dramojh](Invasion%20Of%20The%20Dramojh.md) , [After The War](After%20The%20War.md) >>>
|}
