#diamond-throne #log

According to the [Verrik](Verrik%20History.md), the world is considerably older than the giants claim. The land of Zalavat, the vast desert kingdom of the verrik, is filled with ancient and peculiar ruins — temples, giant heads, curious metallic statues, and things no modern scholar can identify.
Verrik call this ancient civilization the Vnax. The Vnaxians were verrik, ruled by a tribunal of individuals who had used their minds to transform themselves into beings of mostly energy. Their fleshy bodies would appear only occasionally, as they intersected with this plane. The rest of the time, the members of the Vnaxian Tribunal were nearly invisible shimmers of thought. The Vnaxians ruled an empire that covered most of what is now the Southern Wastes — then fertile, green fields, according to the verrik. 
Eventually, most Vnaxians gave up their physical forms and left their cities, temples, and other creations behind. These energyverrik passed into another plane altogether — all of them except one. His name was Xyphon. Meanwhile, the remaining fleshy Vnaxians also left their cities, to dwell in tribes in the wilderness. These verrik worshipped Xyphon as a god-king. He appreciated their worship and watched over them as they developed into the modern verrik and formed the kingdom of Zalavat on the bones of the old Vnaxian civilization.
The verrik, however, grew powerful and confident. They eventually turned on Xyphon, not just rejecting him as a deity, but seeking to banish him from Serran so they could manage their
own destinies. These powerful verrik — witches of many types — succeeded in sending Xyphon away, but at a terrible price. The god-king cursed the entire race with a sign of his displeasure. The Curse of Xyphon can be seen, or rather sensed, in every verrik to this day. Most people describe it as a sense of wrongness that they cannot quite describe or pinpoint. But within Zalavat’s capital of Yrterot, the verrik hide away those afflicted most severely with the curse. This is a secret no verrik will reveal to someone of another race.
