#burning-sky #log

The hall is ﬁlled with hundreds of the most powerful and wealthy people in the world, dressed to celebrate the midsummer festival. Elvish warlords trade stories with an international cavalcade of noblemen, while [[Wayfarerne|Wayfarers]] tumble and blink their way through the room, sending up smatterings of applause. One end of the room is dominated by a huge gilded window that looks out upon a moonlit lake. Standing before this vista is a huge crowd, and in its center stands [[Kejser Kultunge|Emperor Coaltongue]], smiling as he regales his audience with an amusing battle anecdote from his early years as a soldier, of how he got the scar across his face. 

The group laughs at the story’s conclusion, and amid the crowd you recognize [Shalosha](Shalosha.md), the princess of the Shahalesti. She stands beside an older elf with a severe face, who by the respect given him must be [Lord Shaaladel](Lord%20Shaaladel.md). A woman in a conservative red ballroom dress comes up to the emperor’s side, and it takes you a moment to recognize this as [Katrina](Katrina.md), looking far more humble than you’ve ever seen her. She moves beside the emperor, and when Coaltongue sees her his smile falters. “Your mistress sent you to ruin my party?” he asks. “Have [Leska](Leska.md) tell Guthwulf he can take longer if he’d like. I know he enjoys it so much. Katrina shakes her head. “The Supreme Inquisitor actually sent me to ask for Lord Shaaladel’s presence. He… pardon, the Lord of the Shining Land apparently missed an appointment.” Shaaladel seems to pale, and Coaltongue looks to him in curiosity. “Are you two squabbling again?” asks the emperor. His sigh is like the growl of a dragon. “I was hoping she wouldn’t bother us tonight. Go talk to her before she decides to come to the party. We’re trying to have fun, and I would hate to see Leska so completely out of her element.” 

The room grows suddenly quiet, and the Emperor turns to glare in your direction. For a moment you think he’s seen you, but then a woman glides through you, part of the illusion. She wears a dark red robe and a bleak skull mask, capped with an elaborate head-dress of feathers and primitive tribal charms. The crowd quickly parts as she moves toward the emperor. This is Leska, majestic and imposing. Even in a vision, her presence is chilling. “Attend to your advisor, Shaaladel,” she says. The elvish ruler’s eyes widen in shock, and then he quickly excuses himself, striding to the doors out of the hall. Leska’s eyes are cold, but a dark smile curves her lips. “The music, please, my emperor,” she says. “Do not for me deny yourself your ‘fun.’ The summer is so precious, these long years.” Leska turns to leave, and Coaltongue quickly snaps to the musicians to start playing again. Dance music ﬁlls the room as Leska nears the exit. 

Just then the doors open with a boom as four people and a white bear burst into the room. Your enemies have arrived.
